📘 Overview

This project contains classic computer science problems implemented in Python, covering Backtracking, Recursion, and Dynamic Programming (DP) concepts.
Each algorithm is modular, commented, and easily testable for learning or interview preparation.

🚀 Topics Covered
🔹 1. Backtracking Problems
Problem	Description
N-Queens Problem	Place N queens on an N×N board so that no two queens attack each other.
Sudoku Solver	Solve a 9×9 Sudoku puzzle using recursion and backtracking.
Knight’s Tour	Find a path for a knight to visit every square exactly once.
Palindrome Partitioning	Break string into all possible palindrome substrings.
Tiling Problem	Count all possible ways to tile an n×m floor with tiles.
🔹 2. Recursion Practice
Problem	Description
Indirect Recursion	Functions calling each other recursively.
Sum of N Numbers	Demonstrates helper recursion.
Even/Odd Checker	Uses indirect recursion logic.
Palindrome String Check	Recursive check for palindrome strings.
Basic Calculator	Recursive evaluation of arithmetic expressions with parentheses.
🔹 3. Dynamic Programming (DP)
Problem	Description
Fibonacci (Memoization)	Classic DP example.
Rod Cutting	Maximize profit by cutting rods into optimal lengths.
Longest Common Subsequence (LCS)	Find maximum matching sequence between two strings.
Longest Increasing Subsequence (LIS)	Find longest increasing pattern in array or string.
Bellman-Ford Algorithm	Single-source shortest path (with negative weights).
Floyd-Warshall Algorithm	All-pairs shortest path using tabulation.
Dijkstra’s Algorithm	Shortest path algorithm (greedy + DP approach).
Coin Game	Optimal game strategy using DP.
🔹 4. Advanced Problems
Problem	Description
Inversion Count (Merge Sort)	Counts out-of-order pairs efficiently.
Arithmetic Parenthesization	Maximize expression value with parentheses placement.
Piano Fingering Optimization	Minimizes movement cost between notes using 3D DP.
Wildcard Pattern Matching	Supports ? and * matching with recursion + memoization.
🧩 Example Usage
➤ Run N-Queen:
python nqueen.py

➤ Run Sudoku Solver:
python sudoku_solver.py

➤ Run Rod Cutting:
python rod_cutting.py

🧠 Concepts Used

Recursion & Backtracking

Memoization & Tabulation

Graph Algorithms

Dynamic Programming Optimization

Indirect Function Calls

Mathematical Recursion Patterns

📈 Output Example (Rod Cutting)
price = [2, 5, 7, 8]
n = len(price)
print("Maximum Profit:", rod_cutting(price, n))


Output:

Maximum Profit: 10

🧰 Requirements

Python 3.8+

No external libraries required

📚 Learning Purpose

This repository is ideal for:

DSA interview prep

Recursion/DP conceptual clarity

Building intuition behind algorithm design
